by looking into the invisible world of
high speed we discover extraordinary
events even in something as ordinary as
a garden pond these little creatures
water Striders had long been a bit of a
mystery
nobody could work out quite how they
could propel themselves across the
surface of the water so quickly
they can scoot forward nearly two meters
every second
and they're achieving something of
biblical proportions actually walking on
water skating across the surface without
sinking only by seeing what time usually
renders invisible to us can we
understand what's really going on and
it's got something to do what's about to
happen here normally this is too fast to
see but watch what happens in slow
motion as the droplet of milk hits the
water surface
[Music]
instead of breaking the water surface
stretches bouncing the milk drop back up
into the
[Music]
the water behaves as if it has a thin
elastic film on the surface it's called
surface tension and it's this elastic
membrane that allows the water Strider
to stand on the water rather than
sinking into it
he's also using that elastic surface
tension to catapult himself across the
pond at the equivalent of about 600
miles an hour
[Music]
in colored water we can see the force of
the Striders legs as they push across
the surface
[Music]
a high-speed artist of the invisible
world
[Music]
you